what are you doing what are you doing
you're too old to be gaming
grow the hell up
because i grew up with like the first
full generation that grew up with gaming
from the beginning
you always got resistance to it you
always were looked down upon
i was the first
generation basically that grew up with
gaming
from birth it was looked down upon
because it was something new
and it wasn't deemed socially acceptable
it was it was you were in two categories
if you gamed and it was either you were
a kid
young or you were a creepy adult that
you probably
if you were one of those creepy adults
parents wanted to keep their kids away
from you
there was no in between that's literally
how it was deemed it was either for
children or
for adults that were probably people
that you didn't want to
engage with it's sad that it was that
way but that's how human beings are when
there's a new emerging technology or a
new emerging genre
it's different oh my god we have to like
look at it with skepticism because human
beings
like every other animal are creatures of
habit and they don't like
change some of them to this day that i
know i won't name any names
are the same people that will exist
during football season for the sake of
football
like i'm like because that's a much
better thing to invest your time in
great great job there much better look
i'm not talking down to anybody who
loves football but my point being is a
hobby is a hobby
there's things that you enjoy in life
and yeah they could be considered time
wasters but
what are we ants in an ant farm like are
we just existing to
work and not enjoy ourselves
i said in a recent totally unrelated
video
that the way we explain things to others
can be very important
because with the passage of time it
comes to be the way
we explain things to ourselves you might
say
the excuses we make to others publicly
starts to become our private innermost
personal philosophy
the selection of examples
that our reasoning relies upon often
betrays a great deal about
our own motivations the limits of our
own sincerity
and our own rationality when i have
debated
with people who were openly racist on
the internet i'm on the anti-racist side
and they're on the pro-racist side i
noticed that they would cling to
very particular self-serving examples
defined in a very particular way so
they would have something to say about
the contrast between african-americans
and white americans and the city of
chicago and iq tests or some of that
and i would be able to not just
challenge them but completely overturn
their world view and demolish their
argument
not even by criticizing their position
not even by disagreeing with it
but just by shifting to a different set
of examples like okay so why don't we
apply what you've just said
to me to cambodians
and vietnamese people people in thailand
and people in laos let's just talk about
some other
examples of contrasting ethnic groups
and let's think through the implications
of what it is you
you claim and just by changing
the examples they'd selected and and
switching to a set of examples
that they had some emotional detachment
from like they're super
emotionally attached to the conflict
between white people and black people
within the united states of america
then they start thinking about different
ethnic groups that have their own
history of racism
have their own history of conquering and
enslaving one another by the way too
their own history of slavery and the
evolution of slavery and and
suddenly none of those excuses
seem to make sense anymore when i've
talked to people who were
right-wing libertarians they'd be so
attached to some particular example like
they'd have such
faith that if you could just abolish
the postal service uh private companies
like federal express would do a better
job
than the us postal service is part of
their right-wing libertarian
political and economic philosophy and
you just
changed the example say oh that's okay
so that's your theory
now how does that apply to sewage
treatment plants
you think the coca-cola company is going
to operate
sewage treatment plant plants at a at a
profit is that what's good
just challenging them by switching to a
different set
of examples their philosophy
would fall apart it would become
ridiculous
what this guy is doing here what he's
deeply committed to
and what he lacks any sense of emotional
attachment over
shows in the selection of examples what
does he say to you
well on the one hand there's playing
video games which he admits is a waste
of time
and then there's american football
watching football on tv
watching sports on tv and playing
fantasy football
also a waste of time and then the only
other possibility we're presented with
is
well what what do you think do you think
life on earth do you think we're
supposed to be a soulless
race of worker ants do you suppose we're
supposed to just devote all of our time
to
meaningless drudgery to labor
without end those are the examples
he chooses those are the only
alternatives he he presents you with
in questioning your own life what you're
doing with your own
limited time on this planet one thing
can both things technically are waste of
time
but you pick up a video game you're a
weirdo you play pretend but because it's
football and it's
considered something socially acceptable
it's okay
the other major recurring light motif
in his presentation is that you
shouldn't give in
to peer pressure you shouldn't respond
to what society tells you
really he fleshes it out with examples
you shouldn't care about what other
people tell you just other particular
people in your life the other people you
know in your family from high school
your work colleagues
whoever it is you know face to face
rarely do people interact with society
for the most part these are dialogues
with unique individuals
and tell me something tell me something
how else
are you going to learn about
opportunities
and alternatives that are out there if
you're not
willing to listen what if there really
is
a better life to be had than sitting in
your apartment
alone playing video games what if there
is something better
for you to do with your time than
watching football
on television what if there's something
much more meaningful
you could do with those hours that would
motivate you and reward you
so much and you just don't know about it
yet you just haven't
considered it yet for a long time i
really didn't gain
i remember going to get dead rising and
then i played the first time i ever
played fear even though the best way to
play it now is obviously on pc but the
first time i played fear the first
person shooter
um was on 360. i'm like this is amazing
and i remember playing condemn
criminal origins they had all these dark
action games that were so up my alley
and i'm like you know what man
why did i deny myself this this is
absolutely amazing all of these games
are great and gaming
is a hobby that i truly enjoy it's my
passion for tech and gaming that
inspired me to do this and if it was me
just listening to society to tell me oh
you're
too old to play video games and you're
too you know that's for children and
that's and i and i did for many times i
denied myself that and tried to fit into
societal norms and it was
the best choice i ever made was saying
screw everybody
i'm gonna start gaming again my point
being is if there's anyone here who's my
age
and you denied yourself gaming or if
you're younger and maybe you're getting
flack because you game
don't listen to it man if you're if
you're
socially healthy physically healthy
and you're a productive member of
society don't let anyone dictate what
your hobbies are don't let
anyone tell you what you can and cannot
do to enjoy your life
i'm divorced my first wife
her whole life changed because of a
casual conversation she had with
somebody
in a coffee shop and she was at a point
in her life where she wanted to do
something more meaningful she wasn't
sure what it was she wanted a new
direction
she had this conversation with a guy
where she described what her interests
were
and also i think what her kind of
criticism of the university system was
what she didn't
want to do in university and he said to
her well
have you thought about anthropology it
sounds like this is
perfect you know a perfect match for you
you could go into
anthropology long story short she
eventually got a phd
in anthropology from cambridge
university from an elite
university right
i can't say she had never heard of
anthropology before most of us have
heard the word we're aware
that there is a noun in the english
language anthropology but she had never
thought about anthropology as a career
option for her
as a topic for to study university as
something she could do with the rest of
why would you
do did your parents or grandparents say
to you hey
have you considered becoming an
anthropologist right
my whole life changed because i decided
to move to cambodia
and study the cambodian language and do
humanitarian work
nobody in my family ever told me
anything
about cambodia they could have actually
knowing knowing my parents and knowing
who some of my brothers and sisters are
it's possible but none of them ever none
of them ever had a single
conversation with me about cambodia i
saw the word cambodia for the first time
in a comic book i can remember the the
comic book
and for the first time i asked my father
about this war
and the morality and history surrounding
what was this odium surrounding cambodia
and it stuck in my mind that was before
google that was before wikipedia i was
i was a little kid i didn't look it up
in encyclopedia
but it stuck in my mind as an interest
and eventually years later
you know i got interested in laos and
cambodia this other side to the history
of the vietnam war and
the american and canadian involvement in
it
you know i was open to the possibility
of taking on a new direction doing doing
something better
something different with my life how how
would i know about that
how would ever and you know this idea
that any kind of social pressure
is going to be negative if people tell
you to stop wasting your time playing
video games
then you should just fight against that
you should just be committed
to enjoying yourself right but it's not
really conceivable to you yet
just how rewarding it might be for you
to
get a phd in anthropology for you to
study the cambodian language
for you to do something anything that is
orders of magnitude
more meaningful and more rewarding than
playing video games
watching football on tv or endless
meaningless drudgery like being an ant
in a terrarium i worked to save up money
to buy
a sega dreamcast and i did and i bought
that i bought sonic adventure with it
and i got soul calibur
and i was in love with that for a while
i was absolutely in love with that i
remember
i remember um playing that basically
every day when i got home from school
but again i remember focusing on other
things
like wanting to be stay at school trying
to get girls
doing things going out during the
weekends and stuff like that and again
my dream cast i kind of like hit it away
like yeah that's not the cool thing to
do rich remember that like it was just
like i was fighting back the fact that i
wanted to play video games
because i was trying to be socially
accepted by a bunch of other jackasses
that had no bearing on my
life am i a loser for playing video
games
i went to gamestop i was running a whole
bunch of errands
i was like you know i'm passing by
gamestop there was a dude in front of me
and he embodied
the stereotypical nerd gamer and i'm not
even talking about appearance because
let's keep it real i i have no room to
talk
okay it's not that i'm a greek adonis
with washboard abs i'm a fat dude with
man tits but it wasn't even about the
appearance
it was about his persona
he was like hey there how are you doing
today i just i was really excited to
pick up some pokemon cards
and i was looking at him and i'm
thinking to myself
oh my god that's how people
outside of this community look at me
and i'm looking at him and i start
getting real [ __ ] uncomfortable man
because
this is where i'm going to start tying
into more of what rev was talking about
because i'm also he
just turned 35 i just turned 35 and i
have a kid coming
my kid's going to be here my my
fiancee's pregnant and
he's we're expecting a son but i'm
looking at this guy i'm like
i'm 35. do people look at me like him
all of these things come at a cost
in economic parlance what we're dealing
with here is
opportunity cost i regret
going to cambodia i regret studying the
cambodian language it was the wrong
choice
never talk to me again but i really
wonder if at this stage my ex-wife
also would say that she regrets getting
a phd in anthropology
long story short it didn't work out for
her
there's plenty of room for personal
growth here there's plenty of room
for regret also and you know what my
father had
nine kids two of them
had already been to cambodia before me
two of my older brothers
and i remember the conversations i i had
with them about it
they went to cambodia in a really
shallow way they basically went there as
tourists
and they both responded very differently
to me saying that i have this clear
sense of purpose look i'm going to
cambodia
and i'm not just going as a tourist
but sure you know there was an
opportunity even just
within my own family for me to have gone
into that situation better informed
either my brother they could have helped
nobody in my family helped i was all
alone i went to cambodia with my money
in the bottom of my boots
back then getting robbed on the road was
a big problem i had the money on the
between my my socks and the sole of my
shoes as
i entered the country um
my cambodian dictionary on paper no cell
phone no credit card
no lifeline i went there alone to start
a new life
and it didn't work out and what i was
hoping for there what i was looking for
there the life i wanted to have there
it wasn't there to be found i was
disappointed and i learned
i learned a great deal from this
appointment but there was something
else i could have done with those
years of my life with that time with
that energy and yes
even that money and i'll never know i
could have gone to egypt
right same thing for my my ex-wife right
it's not
so much that anthropology is the worst
thing
in the world it's not for me that going
to cambodia was the worst thing but
there was something else she could have
done
there was something else i could have
done right at that juncture in her life
she could have studied anything she
could have done anything with her career
and she did this one thing to the
exclusion of all else and now
she's left to wonder what else she could
have done what might have been
a better choice so the decisions we do
make
are in this way always in the shadow of
this kind of
unknown exchange right
the opportunity cost what this guy
doesn't realize
rich from review tech usa who amazingly
is three years younger
than i am he looks 10 years he looks 20
years older than i am
when you bought that dreamcast rich
look up what the price was for buying a
dreamcast at launch the dreamcast
and the games and adjust for inflation
rich you could have bought yourself an
airplane ticket to egypt
you you could have gone to cambodia
you could have gone to all kinds of
places all right
if you had gone just to see the pyramids
in egypt
if you started taking a correspondence
course to learn to speak
arabic and the egyptian dialect if
you've just gotten a little bit
interested in the ancient history
maybe of greece and rome and the
egyptian pyramids
i'm not going to say to you that it's
the most meaningful thing
in your life going to cambodia wasn't
the most beautiful thing for me either
okay but compared to the time
and money and energy you put into that
sega dreamcast
there is an opportunity cost there are
so many
more meaningful things you could have
done that would have changed you that
would have resulted in you being a
better person
today and the saddest fact of all is
you can't even imagine
what they are
because as you've said yourself from the
cradle to the grave
you're someone who's played video games
from your earliest
childhood and it has
narrowed your imagination about what
this world is
what your place in it is what difference
you can make
and who you can become
[Music]
do
maybe we can we can practice